
User Accounts, Plans, and Pricing

 For clarification of terminology used within this article, please refer to our Glossary.
User Accounts
 User accounts in Knapsack are tied to a single email address and can be used across multiple workspaces. A user account is created the first time that a workspace invitation sent to a given email address is created. The user account name, avatar, email address, and password are global settings that apply across all workspaces to which the account has access.
 Pricing in Knapsack is based on workspaces and associated plans, so there is no specific pricing or cost tied to an individual user account.
Plans and Pricing
 The pricing structure for any given workspace (or combination of workspaces) is determined based on:

Subscription plan
Complexity of implementations and deployment architecture 
Add-on services

Subscription Plans
 Knapsack offers three plans: Starter, Business and Enterprise. Learn more about our plans here.
 All Knapsack workspaces are enabled with the full suite of core features and functionality described in our Platform Documentation.
Paid Users
 Paid users in Knapsack (all plans) are users with Admin or Contributor role assignments. Viewers (including public site availability for Enterprise customers) are free forever. Role assignment and plan adjustments are handled quarterly.
Number of Users and Permissions
 Details about our plans and user limits can be found here. Knapsack currently offers three levels of user permissions, which are configured per workspace: Admin, Contributor, and Viewer. To discuss specific pricing for your team's needs, please contact hello@knapsack.cloud.
Service and Support Plans
 Learn more about our support plans here. Knapsack also provides bespoke add-on services such as workshops and seminars for teams of all sizes.
Customization
 Customers on the Enterprise Plan have the option of working with Knapsack to customize their workspace, including but not limited to:

Knapsack interface look and feel
Custom content blocks and extensions
Integrations
Deployment and architecture

 Some customizations simply require reaching a minimum subscription threshold and/or support plan, while others may require additional implementation fees. To discuss specific pricing for your team's needs, please contact hello@knapsack.cloud.
